So what are some examples of events, and how do they actually work?
Well,
let's imagine a few different event types and how that
actually triggers Lambda to do something.
The first, let's imagine,
is a file upload. Well, with a file upload, we might have a PNG file,
for example, gets sent to something like Amazon S3 or Simple Storage Service.
Let's say that Lambda is supposed to resize that PNG and put
it back somewhere else so our application can use it as
something like a profile image.
So when it sees that file upload coming to S3, S3 will then send
a little piece of information over to Lambda,
essentially the event details to tell Lambda that it has some work to do.
Then Lambda will examine the event details,
go and get the image from S3 based on the event details that are sent to it,
resize it, and then put it where it's supposed to go.
Similarly, we might have another event, like a scheduled time,
which might trigger from something like a cron job,
which triggers at a specific time,
or a rate which triggers regularly on some interval, like 5 minutes or 3 hours.
And every time that that job is triggered,
we would get that basic configuration to come into our Lambda function, and then
it would determine if it has some preconfigured task inside the Lambda to run
what to do. Now, we might also have something like an API request that comes in
from something like the AWS API Gateway.
Now, each of these different types of events are all going to send
some structured data over to Lambda to process.
And from that structured data,
it'll take different parts of it and determine what to do with it.
In the case of an AP I request,
it might take the specific endpoint being sent in.
Maybe it's a GET request for some piece of information from a backing
database. And it would see that, go to the backing database,
get the information, and send it back.
So what are some benefits and challenges of working with events
and working with serverless functions like this?
Well,
one of the biggest things that we see in response to using serverless
functions is the cost and utilization benefits,
and there's some arguments on both sides in terms of
using Lambda and cost and utilization.
But the biggest thing to think about here is whether or not you're going to
get high utilization from using Lambda and if that's worthwhile to offset
the slight increase of cost that AWS is charging as a markup on top of this
sort of service. Because technically,
if you ran a 100% optimized service on something like EC2, just from the
purely resource and machine cost infrastructure costs,
the EC2 service would be a little bit cheaper, whereas with Lambda there'll be
that slight overhead for AWS managing everything for you.
But that's not really the whole picture because it's basically
impossible to get to that 100% utilization.
And it's a notorious problem with traditional applications.
How do you make sure you're not paying for more than you're actually using?
With serverless,t that problem is taken care of for you because you're only
paying for the few seconds or the fractions of seconds that your code is
actually running. Now, additionally,
not having to manage the machines that your code runs on saves you time
from doing everything from security patches to hardware maintenance, and it
also saves you from having to deal with the potential consequences of not
doing security patches or maintenance.
That could be downtime for your business or serious
vulnerabilities or risks for your applications.
Now, because AWS manages both the machines in the Lambda service for you,
you also get access to a bunch of integrations with other AWS services.
Now, this helps you integrate between things like streaming data with
Kinesis or IoT processing of data from the Internet of Things devices
you might be working with. Now,
if you want the benefits of that, Lambda is really the place to go.
Finally,
another massive benefit is that AWS handles the scaling of
your compute capacity up and down for you.
You don't need to request new hardware, set it up, or configure it.
It's all there for you with a capacity that you need. Now, of course,
with any newer technology,
there are also challenges, and when you're running thousands and thousands of
Lambda function invocations, each of those events that's triggering a Lambda
function would cause an invocation. It can be hard to isolate which specific
ones fail and how and really dig into those,
and so debugging becomes a slightly more difficult challenge than
it might be in the case of an EC2 instance. Just because those
problems have been around for so long,
there's more tools to address those in the case of EC2. You might
have to end up using a third‑party tool to help isolate those or
use something like Amazon CloudWatch,
which has all the logs for your Lambda functions.
Now,
if your projects require lower level control over the operating
system or other parts of the infrastructure,
then Lambda might not be the best use case for you because many of
those areas aren't configurable using AWS Lambda.
And finally, because the service is a little bit newer,
there's always going to be cutting‑edge quirks for niche use cases, so
just be sure to research your own use cases as you're doing development
work before you dive into Lambda to make sure that it's still
appropriate for this new technology.
So why would you specifically want to learn about Lambda?
Well,
I'm going to start by thinking about reasons that
developers might want to learn Lambda,
and then we'll look at the relevance it has to
organizations and businesses on a broader scale.
So, as a developer,
you're going to want to focus on your applications and the needs of your
users and the value that you can provide from your code.
And in general,
the maintenance of machines and operational tasks is not going to
be your priority or your real desire to focus on, so this managed
infrastructure helps you avoid that.
Now,
if you're interested in the surge of IoT devices in the Internet of
Things, Lambda is a huge presence in that regard.
Not only does it make it really easy to build things like Amazon
Alexa skills, the overall event‑driven model is a super powerful
architecture to utilize in the IoT space.
And more generally,
Lambda and AWS as a whole are consistently increasing in demand and relevance,
with Lambda as a particular skill showing up more and more
in job applications and different roles.
So, let's take a look at what I mean by Lambda and AWS being in higher demand.
Don't take my word for it.
In terms of Lambda's growing relevance, over the last several
years, it's been skyrocketing in comparison to other cloud
function providers and remains one of the top cloud function
providers in the industry today.
As you can see from this Google trend search,
it's still high above Azure Functions and Google Cloud Functions.
But it's not just Lambda that's great to learn.
It's also the largest AWS, or Amazon Web Service, ecosystem
that's currently the single strongest player in the
Infrastructure as a Service space.
The second place winner is still probably Microsoft Azure,
with other providers like IBM,
Google Cloud Platform, and many others, distant contenders,
for market share here. Some of those other providers have
excellent services in specific areas,
and Microsoft Azure has also started to develop many comparable services
to AWS, but the overall ecosystem still appears to be strongest for AWS.
Now, this means that not only for your personal development needs, but
also for the needs of your businesses and organizations as a whole,
Lambda and AWS still seem to be the best choices for developing these
sorts of applications.
So, by now, you're probably wondering, well,
who uses Lambda, and why? Well,
there's lots of different use cases for it. If just a few can include
things like processing streaming data and the Internet of Things,
like I mentioned, but it can also be integrated with AWS API Gateway
to make easy and scalable APIs.
And in the event you have some sort of photo or file processing needs,
you can use Lambda to do this on demand.
Now, it's also very flexible, so it can be used to power many
different parts of back‑end web applications, be that getting
access to some sort of database or processing some incoming data
coming through CSVs or other files,
or really many use cases that any sort of application
you're building on the web might require.
But keep in mind that this is just a subset of the things that
Lambda can do, and always take a look for your specific use cases as you're starting to use it.